In the website Legend of Karasi, the user is tasked with making a series of decisions that will influence not only the progression of an apocalyptic story but also their role (Christ, Anti-Christ, Survivalist, or Prophet) within the apocalypse. The website is served with a python/Flask backend server in addition to the html documents and Javascript code used in rendering the webpage.

In order to run the website, the user must be sure to have a recent installation of python3 and Flask, as well ensure that the requirements.txt file used in the app contains the same programs as the one we will provide. Upon clicking the website link (or flask run and click website link), the user is directed to the homepage that displays the title of the website (Legend of Karasi) in red font on the left side of the gray header and a red ‘Register’ and ‘Login’ option on the right side of the gray header. Below the header, the words ‘Choose Your Own Fate’ are displayed in white font along with forms that allow the user to write in their username and password and click the red login button to login. However, a first time user will not have registered yet and thus will need to click the ‘register’ hyperlink at the top right corner.

Upon clicking the red ‘register’ hyperlink, the user will be redirected (/register) to a page that will ask them to type in their username, password, and password confirmation in each respective form. Then, they will click the blue register button to register. If their username is taken, a warning header will appear at the top of the website that says, ‘Username Taken.’ If the user does not enter a username, a warning message appears that says ‘Please Enter a username’. If the user does not enter a password, a warning message appears that says ‘Please Enter a Password. If the user does not confirm their password, a warning message appears that says ‘Please Enter a confirmation.’ If the password confirmation does not match the password, a warning message appears that says ‘Password does not match Confirmation.’ The password must be alphanumeric, at least 8 characters long, and contain one special character. If any of the fields are not met, a warning message appears that tells the user of the password requirements. The username must also be alphanumeric and a warning message will tell the user such if that is not the case.

Once successfully registered, the user will be redirected (/login) to the login page that allows the user to type their username and password in a form and then click a red login button to log in. If the user does not enter a username or password or enters an incorrect/nonexistent username or password, a warning message appears that says ‘Please enter a valid username and password.’The user can also manually go to the login page by clicking the red ‘login’ hyperlink in the top right corner.

Once logged in, the user is redirected to the playthroughs page which includes a table with the columns Character Name’, ‘Date Started’, ‘Current Chapter’, ‘View/Continue’, and ‘Delete’. New users will see a blank table. The grey header of the website is changed to include ‘Start Your Story’,  ‘Past Playthroughs’, ‘Creative Decisions’, and ‘Log Out’ on the right side of the header.

When the user clicks ‘Start Your Story’, they can type their name in the form and select from a dropdown tab of four pronouns (he/his/him, she/her/hers, they/their/them, and xe/xyrs/xim). If the user presses the red ‘Start Your Story’ button at the button of the forms without entering a name, a warning header will appear that says ‘Please enter your name’. If the user presses the red ‘Start Your Story’ button at the button of the forms without selecting a pronoun from the dropdown menu, a warning header will appear that says ‘Please select your pronouns.’

Once the first time user enters their name, selects their pronouns, and clicks the ‘Start Your Story’ button, they are redirected to the first chapter of the story (Chapter I: Karasi). Music plays as the user reads a description of the afrofuturistic setting of Karasi and views an artistic rendition of the nation. The user can then click the ‘Next Chapter’ red outline button that will redirect the user to the second chapter (Chapter II: Breakfast) and plays new music.  At the bottom of the page, once the user has read the text, the user is prompted with two button options (Brush it off or Tell your mom how you feel). There is also a red ‘Previous Chapter’ button that allows the user to return to the chapter directly previous to the one they are on (in this case, Chapter I). Once a yellow decision button is clicked, red text appears that corresponds with the button that is clicked (each decision changes the story in some way). The user is then able to click the red outlined ‘Next Chapter Button’ which directs them to the next chapter.
Chapter 3 has two buttons (Refuse his invitation or Accept his invitation). Once the button is clicked, the text will appear with the respective story that corresponds to the decision. At any point, the user can click any text on the header. Clicking ‘Legend of Karasi’ will redirect the user to the playthrough table, clicking ‘Start Your Story’ will redirect the user to the name and pronoun forms to start a new playthrough, clicking ‘Creative Decisions’ will explain the artistic choices in the storytelling, and clicking ‘Log Out’ will let the user logout. However, if a chapter has multiple decisions that the user needs to make (like in Chapter III) and the user has made one decision, once the user hovers to any of the hyperlinks in the header (e.g., Start Your Story), a warning message is displayed that says ‘Leaving this page without clicking "next chapter" may result in lost progress.’ If the user decides to finish the chapter, they will have another decision to make.

After completing each chapter, the user can go to the next chapter, logout, view the creative decisions, or start another story and make different decisions. The playthrough table will save any process made on completed chapters and allow the user to continue where they left off (by clicking the continue button) or delete a playthrough.

All chapters have their own music and background image. Each time a decision button is clicked, a distinctive sound is played. From Chapter 1-9, the user has a mix of solely text chapters, one decision chapters, and multiple decision chapters. Decisions made in previous chapters that resulted in major plot changes (e.g., Yafeu’s death or parents’ death) are also taken into consideration to ensure continuity and no plot holes.

Each decision that the user makes corresponds to a specific apocalyptic archetype and by the end, those decisions are tallied to find the user’s archetype. Once the user reaches chapter 10, there is a yellow outlined ‘Reveal your Ending’ button that will display the ending that corresponds to the user’s apocalyptic archetype. Therefore, each archetype has a different ending, and depending on the user’s choices, they will receive a specific ending for their specific archetype. Based on the archetype, the user will be presented with different music.

After Chapter 10, once the user clicks ‘Next Chapter’, they are redirected to a breakdown page that displays the user’s primary archetype (the archetype which determined their ending) and their secondary archetype. There is also a text explanation of the archetypes. The pronouns are used here to personalize the description.

After completing a story, the user can click the ‘Past Playthroughs’ hyperlink and go to the playthrough table with columns ‘Character Name’, ‘Date Started’, ‘Archetype’, ‘View Story’, and ‘View Breakdown’. This allows the user to view stories they have already completed as well as jump to the breakdown file for said stories as opposed to having to click through each decision and chapter again. They can also easily see the archetype that corresponds to each completed playthrough. If the user clicks the ‘Legend of Karasi’ hyperlink after completing the story, the ‘Playthrough Table’ allows the user to click the view button and view their completed story from chapter 1.
